it has been my distinct honor to serve
as president of the American Association
for cancer research over the past year
the ACR has had a long and Rich history
of highquality innovative cancer science
that spans the Spectrum from laboratory
research to translational and clinical
research to population science all of
which is saving lives from cancer every
day the 11 founders of our great
organization 107 years ago could not
have conceptualized the impact of their
decision to form the aacr which has
become the oldest and largest
organization in the world dedicated to
the prevention and cure of all cancers
the greatest cancer scientists and
Physicians of our time are all members
of the aacr and their incredible work
has led not only to an increase in our
knowledge and understanding of cancer
but also to amazing breakthroughs
against the disease aacr members are
harnessing this knowledge to Target
cures extend lives and give New Hope to
cancer patients and their
families but in order to continue the
progress that has been made and to speed
the eradication of this disease that
affects so many around the world a major
increase in funding for cancer research
is needed now this funding will keep our
Laboratories alive maintain our pipeline
of young investigators in the field and
find new cures for cancer the aacr is
dedicated to educating members of the
public about cancer and the value of
cancer research to their health which
which is why we are so proud to be the
Outreach partner along with standup to
cancer in support of Ken Burn's
production of the upcoming documentary
the Emperor of all
maladies hi I'm Ken Burns executive
producer of the new film The Story of
cancer the Emperor of all maladies this
three-part six-hour series will air on
PBS in
2015 based on the Pulitzer prizewinning
book The Emperor of all maladies by Dr
sidart Mukerji it will be the most
comprehensive film ever made about the
disease its past its present and its
future we go back in time to explore the
great medical detective story that has
led us to this moment of tremendous
promise in cancer research I'd like to
thank Dr Margaret fod and the American
Association for cancer research for
their contributions to this important
documentary The aacr has been on the
front lines in harnessing breakthroughs
and targeting cures for more than 100
years and its 34,000 members are making
progress against this terrible disease
every day I am honored to tell this
story the history of cancer the future
of cancer your story and now we'd like
to show you a quick trailer for our film
our film Project the Emperor of all
maladies is about as close to the bone
as film making gets for me cancer has
been a huge part of my life there is
never a moment in my awareness as a
human being that I didn't know that
something was desperately wrong with my
mother 2 and 1/2 3 years old she was
sick with cancer she died when I was 11
almost 12 years old the reason why I do
what I do comes from this illness and
this death and watching it happen so in
a way as much as you want to move away
from it you have to move towards it one
of my patients asked me a very simple
question what is it that I'm fighting I
was drawn sort of obsessively drawn to
this question because I thought to
myself well here's something that is
going to intersect with all of our Lives
yet we know very little about we don't
know its history where does it arise
what happens next where are we in the in
this journey so I decided to take the
journey way back into the past and Way
Forward into the future try to
understand where are we today with
cancer what happens
next when I was growing up I had an aunt
who developed cancer and she was hidden
in the Attic people were ashamed if they
had it nobody wanted to be seen if they
had it I went to medical school in from
48 to 52 and at that time we were told
you don't tell patients that they have
cancer because it's inhuman it would be
cruel to do so I remember one child girl
remember she she looked at me I'm dying
I'm dying can't you save me Dr pinkle
can't you save me
if I try to put myself back in my early
training in medicine and imagine the
world that we're entering now this path
toward rational treatment for cancer
it's a totally different
language we weren't even close to being
able to imagine it Mr May hello Dr Ros
so great to good to see you too I knew
somebody somewhere has got to be working
on something that can beat this it looks
like virtually everything is gone you've
saved my life and I just feel like I
feel so
[Music]
lucky super cells coming back all right
there right here little buggers this is
it all right this area a chance at a
cure lies in a in a Petri dish I can't
can't imagine for any of us to be able
to do this job in a sustained way
without having the ability to find what
is hopeful in every
situation you want to see that yeah this
is the before picture that was her tumor
6 weeks ago you see how much smaller
it's gotten way to
go there are some oncologists who drop
out of oncology they say the tragedy of
losing patients is too difficult
I've lost a lot of patience because I've
been around a long time and it is
difficult but I haven't lost my ability
to say this is a step on the road to
eventual success and if I am not
successful my successors will be
successful you have to believe in the
future and I do
[Music]
I'm not a scientist I don't know whether
this will all pan out but there's a
sense a kind of palpable energy and
excitement that we may be on the cusp of
some significant changes some
significant breakthroughs some new and
radical therapies and treatments that
will change our relationship to the
disease make no mistake this is one of
the most significant human challenges in
our history but I think we're sitting in
an extraordinary moment because we
finally are beginning to understand what
causes cancer at a cellular or molecular
or genetic level in a way we just did
not know 10 years ago or even 5 years
ago you look at what's going on with
cancer right now it's stunning it is
exhilarating to see the understanding of
cancer that's piling up to see the early
drugs that are being
developed if you were expecting cures
for cancer next week it just can't
happen that way but on the other hand if
one looks at what's going on one has to
be enormously optimistic at the progress
It's not fast it's not easy sometimes we
think we know the answer and we don't
and then we get corrected but but we
know we're on the right path every field
in medicine has had a moment in history
that has been transforming the moment
where the
knowledge that was required to change
the field became
available this is the moment for cancer
it's happening
[Music]